[Doc] [refactor] Improve Taichi kernels and functions definition (#1576)
taichi-dev/taichi: docs/syntax.rst

Syntax
======

Taichi-scope vs Python-scope
----------------------------

> Codes decorated by ``@ti.kernel`` or ``@ti.func`` is the **Taichi-scope**.

Author: ```suggestion
Code decorated by ``@ti.kernel`` or ``@ti.func`` is in the **Taichi-scope**.
```

They are to be compiled and executed on CPU or GPU devices with high
parallelization performance, on the cost of less flexibility.

.. note::

    For people from CUDA, Taichi-scope = **device** side.

> Codes outside ``@ti.kernel`` or ``@ti.func`` is the **Python-scope**.

Author: ```suggestion
Code outside ``@ti.kernel`` or ``@ti.func`` is in the **Python-scope**.
```

They are not compiled by the Taichi compiler and have lower performance
but with a richer type system and better flexibility.

.. note::

    For people from CUDA, Python-scope = **host** side.

Kernels
-------

A Python function decorated by ``@ti.kernel`` is a **Taichi kernel**:

.. code-block:: python

   @ti.kernel
   def my_kern():
       ...

   my_kern()

> Kernels are to be called from **Python-scope**.

Author: ```suggestion
Kernels should be called from **Python-scope**.
```

.. note::

>     For people from CUDA, Taichi kernels = ``__global__``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    For people from CUDA, Taichi kernels = ``__global__`` functions.
```

Arguments
*********

Kernels can have at most 8 parameters so that you can pass values from
Python-scope to Taichi-scope easily.

Kernel arguments must be type-hinted:

.. code-block:: python

    @ti.kernel
    def my_kern(x: ti.i32, y: ti.f64):
        print(x + y)

    my_kern(2, 3.3)  # prints: 5.3

.. note::

    For now, we only support scalars as arguments. Specifying ``ti.Matrix`` or ``ti.Vector`` as argument is not supported. For example:

    .. code-block:: python

        @ti.kernel
        def bad_kernel(v: ti.Vector):
            ...

        @ti.kernel
        def good_kernel(vx: ti.f32, vy: ti.f32):
            v = ti.Vector([vx, vy])
            ...

Return value
************

A kernel may or may not have a **scalar** return value.

> The type of return value must be hinted:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If it does, the type of return value must be hinted:
```

.. code-block:: python

    @ti.kernel
    def my_kern() -> ti.f32:
        return 233.33

    print(my_kern())  # 233.33

The return value will be automatically cast into the hinted type. e.g.,

.. code-block:: python

    @ti.kernel
    def add_xy() -> ti.i32:  # int32
        return 233.33

    print(my_kern())  # 233, since return type is ti.i32

.. note::

>     For now, kernels only support one scalar as return value. Returning ``ti.Matrix`` or ``ti.Vector`` is not supported. Python-style tuple return is not supported either. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    For now, a kernel can only have one scalar return value. Returning ``ti.Matrix`` or ``ti.Vector`` is not supported. Python-style tuple return is not supported either. For example:
```

            return x, y  # Error

Advanced arguments
******************

We also support **template arguments** (see :ref:`template_metaprogramming`) and **external array arguments** (see :ref:`external`) in Taichi kernels.  Use ``ti.template()`` or ``ti.ext_arr()`` as their type-hints respectively.

.. note::

   When using differentiable programming, there are a few more constraints on kernel structures. See the **Kernel Simplicity Rule** in :ref:`differentiable`.

   Also, please do not use kernel return values in differentiable programming, since the return value will not be tracked by automatic differentiation. Instead, store the result into a global variable (e.g. ``loss[None]``).

Functions
---------

A Python function decorated by ``@ti.func`` is a **Taichi function**:

.. code-block:: python

    @ti.func
    def my_func():
        ...

    @ti.kernel
    def my_kern():
        ...
        my_func()  # call functions from Taichi-scope
        ...

    my_kern()      # call kernels from Python-scope

> Functions are to be called from **Taichi-scope**.

Reviewer: I think we'd better differentiate the term functions and taichi functions.

Author: ```suggestion
Taichi functions can only be called from **Taichi-scope**.
```

.. note::

>     For people from CUDA, Taichi functions = ``__device__``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    For people from CUDA, Taichi functions = ``__device__`` functions.
```

.. note::

>     Functions can be nested.

Author: ```suggestion
    Taichi functions can be nested.
    
.. warning::

    Currently, all functions are force-inlined. Therefore, no recursion is allowed.
```

Arguments and return values
***************************

Functions can have multiple arguments and return values.

> Unlike kernel, function arguments don't need to be type-hinted:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unlike kernels, arguments in functions don't need to be type-hinted:
```

Functions
---------

A Python function decorated by ``@ti.func`` is a **Taichi function**:

.. code-block:: python

    @ti.func
    def my_func():
        ...

    @ti.kernel
    def my_kernel():
        ...
        my_func()  # call functions from Taichi-scope
        ...

    my_kernel()    # call kernels from Python-scope

Taichi functions should be called from **Taichi-scope**.

.. note::

    For people from CUDA, Taichi functions = ``__device__`` functions.

.. note::

    Taichi functions can be nested.

.. warning::

    Currently, all functions are force-inlined. Therefore, no recursion is allowed.

Arguments and return values
***************************

Functions can have multiple arguments and return values.
Unlike kernels, arguments in functions don't need to be type-hinted:

.. code-block:: python

    @ti.func
    def my_add(x, y):
        return x + y

    @ti.kernel
    def my_kernel():
        ...
        ret = my_add(2, 3.3)
        print(ret)  # 5.3
        ...

> Function arguments are passed by value, changes made inside function scope
> won't affect the outside value in the caller:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Function arguments are passed by value. So changes made inside function scope
won't affect the outside value in the caller:
```

            p += d * t
            ...

.. warning::

    Functions with multiple ``return`` statements are not supported for now. Use a **local** variable to store the results, so that you end up with only one ``return`` statement:

    .. code-block:: python

      # Bad function - two return statements
      @ti.func
      def safe_sqrt(x):
        if x >= 0:
          return ti.sqrt(x)
        else:
          return 0.0

      # Good function - single return statement
      @ti.func
      def safe_sqrt(x):
        ret = 0.0
        if x >= 0:
          ret = ti.sqrt(x)
        else:
          ret = 0.0
        return ret

> 
> 
> .. warning::
> 
>     Currently, all functions are force-inlined. Therefore, no recursion is allowed.
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```
